Add Autodiscovery documentation (#428)
updatecli/website: content/en/docs/core/autodiscovery.adoc

---
title: "Autodiscovery"
description: "Autodiscovery is the mechanism where we let Updatecli identify available pipeline based on a directory"
lead: "Autodiscovery, auto pilot mode on"
date: 2022-01-09T15:21:01+02:00
lastmod: 2022-01-09T15:21:01+02:00
draft: true
images: []
menu:
  docs:
    parent: "core"
weight: 130
toc: true
---
// <!-- Required for asciidoctor -->
:toc:
// Set toclevels to be at least your hugo [markup.tableOfContents.endLevel] config key
:toclevels: 4

== Description

In the lifecycle of a software project, dependencies are everywhere.

> From that third application used to lint our code, the tool used to build our documentation website, or the container image used to distribute our application.

Reviewer: What is the "third application" mentionned here? Not sure to understand what it is?

Author: I am trying to stay generic to explain that we rely on many external project, so in this case  it could be hadolint, golangci-lint, etc. but apparently I am not clear enough

As the project grows, the number of dependencies grows as long. Some dependencies are context-dependent, and others are expressed using a standard data structure.

Updatecli is a great tool to handle both situations. It can either manage tailored update scenarios by using a manifest provided by a maintainer or automatically identify available update scenarios.

The latter approach removes the need to write manifest.

> We name the behavior "autodiscovery". When autodiscovery is used, Updatecli tries to generate manifests before applying them.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This behavior is refered as "autodiscovery". When autodiscovery is enabled, Updatecli generates manifests in-memory before applying them (instead of reading manifests and applying).
```

Author: Thank you for the suggestion, I prefer it

> An example would be to look for any files named "Dockerfile" and within each of those files, look for the "FROM" instruction so we could upgrade the base image.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

A use case: a repository with a collection of `Dockerfile`s. 
To keep the Dockerfiles' `FROM` instructions up to date, writing one manifest file per `Dockerfile` is not practical. With autodiscovery enabled, Updatecli scans the repository for all `Dockerfile` and automatically tracks the `FROM` instruction to propose updates if needed.
```
